welcome back again everyone la Isla
Montgomery here China history podcast
episode 2 5 2 history of scenes young
part 9 we're getting to the end where as
far as I'm planning to take it as
promised last time we'll see what was
cooking as Xin Jiang during the time
when the Mongols ruled Asia 13th and
14th centuries and then maybe we'll do a
fast walk through the Ming as well let's
see how far we could go before the
whistle is blown at the end of stoppage
time we left off last episode on the eve
of the Mongol conquest of Asia
when dschinghis khan' died in 1227 he
left his empire in the hands of his four
sons Jiu Qi chaga tie her g'day and
Tolui and as I mentioned in part 8 the
one we're most interested in as far as
this series being all about the history
of Xinjiang is the chagatai khanate
the one that took on the general size
and shape of the kuraki tie or western
liao territories remember the etiquette
of the Weger kocho kingdom in the north
of the tire and basin and in Turpan well
his name was Bart Chuck he was the
so-called honorary 5th son of jingus
because of his special relationship to
Chinggis Khaan bar Chuck's Weger kocho
Kingdom reported not too talkative but
directly to erga Days Connaughton
Mongolian Siberia which also served as
the head office for the whole Mongol
Empire and during this period the kocho
kingdom is often referred to as we giris
don so this was a built in point of
contention the kingdom geographically
belonging to the chug attack on it but
the Weger took their orders from someone
else that won't last forever I had
mentioned how the Weger is in particular
so refined and literate and the true
inheritors of the many qualities that
made the Sogdian so great well they
weren't Mongol they were Turks but they
were trusted by the Mongol aristocracy
to manage so much of the Empire's
bureaucracy and in other matters where
literacy was crucial the we Gers were
the most literate
and sophisticated of all the peoples of
Western inner Asia Frederic moat had
said of the we Gers quote their broad
cultural experience and elements of the
several literate high traditions with
which they had at one time or another
been familiar as well as their
acceptance by nomadic peoples as kindred
people of the steppe meant they could
mediate to others a wide range of
religious and intellectual ideas and
practical governing experience
end quote they brought mantequilla ism
with them to shenzhen from mongolia and
also played a role in introducing
Nestorian Christianity to these parts
and then in the 13th century they
transitioned to Buddhism before the
ultimate triumph of Islam in Xinjiang
the other place too important to leave
to brother chaga tie was the city of
co'tin they too were direct reports to
the Great Khan and not chugga tag and
chaga tie Khan while he was alive pretty
much followed his father's wishes on
this arrangement and didn't challenge
brother Oh g'day Khan but it remained a
bone of contention between the two well
I don't want to rehash the whole history
of the Mongolian Empire Chris Stuart at
the history of China has more than a
dozen episodes on that year and so far
so go check that out if you want all the
details I'll try and stick to the shin
heung part only but if I start
meandering I apologize in advance
suffice to say chingus Khan's best laid
plans leaving his empire to his four
boys it didn't turn out the way the
Great Khan had hoped I can't count how
many power grabs alliances and betrayals
and Wars there were but 13 to 14
centuries they sure made our story
complicated to tell and the Mongol and
Turkic names aren't so easy to pronounce
either but what an interesting time for
everyone already quite familiar with
this history this can be a refresher
course for you the first bump in the
road came in 1251 when Agha daikon died
and the son of Tolui möngke khan emerged
on top following an unexpected
succession struggle
he was the brother of Kublai Khan now
unlike his uncle or g'day möngke khan
was a little more warlike and pugnacious
where it came to the chaga tired and
Ergun a at branches of the family where
as a god a respected the wishes of
Chinggis Khaan as far as autonomy for
the kocho Weger Kingdom went monkey
wasn't so accommodating and went in and
took control of this kingdom until his
death in 1259 another power struggle
followed monkey Khan's death no surprise
there and in the shakeout shinjang found
itself in the middle of a war between
Kublai Khan and the south and brother
Eric Barca in the north Kublai Khan made
a few attempts to seize Xinjiang then in
control of the chagatai odes who also
controlled transoxiana and these
descendants of chaga tai well they ended
up flipping their allegiance from eric
burkay to Kublai Khan who was quite
determined to annex these strategic
lands and shinjin after defeating his
brother in 1264 Kubla had to go up
against a more formidable foe the next
bigger-than-life Mongolian Khan kaiju
grandson of argot a which made him the
great grandson of Genghis Khan
not a bad bloodline to have for anybody
with ambitions and that Empire in
popular world history
Kaidu khan is perhaps most remembered as
Kublai Khan's constant foe for three
decades in the lake 12 hundreds as these
two great powers Kublai and kaiju Khan
battled the area all around beche Malik
the capital of the kocho Weger kingdom
and shinjang while a place became like a
no-man's land
caught in the middle of this epic Kaidu
Kublai struggle that lasted from 1268 to
1301 besh and other parts of
Shenzhen were wrecked by kaiju Khan's
armies and those of the chugga tides he
also controlled but in 1301 after three
decades at the top Kaidu Khan passed
from this earth
dying with his boots on during a failed
attack near Karakoram while he was alive
however she and John fell under his
sphere of power and remained part of the
chug attack on it
Kublai Khan's dynasty try as they did to
add Xin Jiang to their empire had to
settle for only the easternmost portion
the part just beyond the Gansu corridor
as far as how the we Gers feared under
the mongols well many of the weaker of
the kocho kingdom under pressure from
these chugga tides fled east to seek
relief from Kublai Khan and the yeren
dynasty from 843 to 1132 the wee girls
had built a most splendid Kingdom in
this corner of Shenzhen 1132 they had to
grovel a little and become vassals of
the kuraki Thai but remained highly
autonomous in 1209 and as I said the
into coots bar chook signed up with
Chinggis Khaan and although vassals of
the Mongols the Weir's again enjoyed
special treatment compared to the other
conquered lands these were some of the
best times in recent memory for the
northern portion of the Tarim basin and
in Turpan but starting in the late 12
hunter it's as the kaiju Kubla wars
raged this kocho kingdom ultimately fell
to the chug attack on it by the close of
the 14th century the last of the Weger
with their mana key ism and buddhism had
converted to islam but not altogether
not at the same time the oasis of the
turpan basin continued to hang on to
their long and great buddhist tradition
that went back to the 4th century days
of kumara Jeeva Buddhism and turpan
lasted well into the Ming Dynasty but by
the 16th century there in Turpan the
last traces of Buddhism disappeared
following Kaidu Khan's death the
chagatai khanate went through a period
of violent struggles for succession and
the connet began to break up into
bite-size pieces another brick in the
wall as far as advancing the
Islamization of Xinjiang and the rest of
Central Asia followed in the wake of the
chugga Taikan terma Sheeran his life in
his brief four-year reign from 1331 to
13 34 are subject to some disagreement
details are open to interpretation
Tommy Sheeran was mostly remembered for
his campaign to conquer northern India
and as the chaga Tai Khan who converted
to Islam and became I guess he could say
a kind of religious zealot and during
his reign tolerance for other religions
became a thing of the past and his
policies aggressively encouraged the
spread of Islam through the chagatai
khanate
now he wasn't the first chugga tired
Khan to convert to Islam that was
Mubarak Shah but he was definitely the
one responsible for firing up the spread
of this growing faith during the 14th
century Tarma Sheeran's actions also
caused the chagatai khanate to fracture
as the Buddhist and Christian and other
non Muslim faithful up in transoxiana
and the Ely region rose up against harm
Ashera the end result of this upheaval
was that the connot split into eastern
and western parts the western half
comprised the traditional lands of
transoxiana and continued to brand
themselves as the chug attack on it
timur or tamerlane may he came from this
portion of the former chug attack on it
now the ones we're concerned with is the
eastern portion this became known as
mogila Stan
we've all heard of the Mughal Empire in
India mogul was the Arab or Persian
pronunciation of Mongol so the eastern
portion of mogila Stan covered the
Turpin and towering basins north of the
Tian Shan the lands once called Weger
Stan and site of the former coach oh we
gurke Ingham as well as portions of
Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan there was one
particular mogul clan the do glutes who
dominated the politics and power plays
in Xinjiang during this MOU
galliston period the Mogul Cana tour
mogila Stan again is Stan its Persian
for land mogila Stan the land of the
Mongols though they themselves did not
call it that
now these Mongols differed from those in
the western part of the chagatai khanate
the ones who ended up in mogila Stan
were more traditional and nomadic in
their makeup the ones who more embrace
their Mongolian culture which of course
was a steppe culture they were slower to
embrace Islam they went their own way in
part due to their resistance to
abandoning their age-old faiths and
giving in to the aggressive measures
tarma Sharon had set in motion but islam
did of course make its way into mogila
stan just like with constantine the
great in the early 4th century all it
takes is one strong ruler to sign on in
this case it was to Gluck timur from
1347 and 1362 looked timur was the khan
ruling in mogila stan he owed his
position to the do glut moguls who acted
as the khan makers of their day and he
was the one who ran this eastern part of
the chagatai khanate that he molded into
a connot called mogila stan and after
tulip Timur gave all the mogul princes
an offer they couldn't refuse converting
them to Islam first and with the ruling
family and aristocrats taken care of
then Islam was rolled out across the
rest of Shenzhen and after his
conversion to Islam in what I said was
still a predominantly Buddhist land to
look Timur campaigned against the
Western chagatai khanate and was able to
reunite east and west into a single
chaga take on it but this reunited khan
it and only hung in there as long as to
look Tim or remained in power and this
conquering khan passed in 1363 five
years before the great hero from chinese
history
Zhu Yuanzhang did what was once thought
to be unthinkable
and to the Mongol Yuan Dynasty and then
of course he went on to establish the
Ming Dynasty in 1368 so to look Timur
he was another one-hit wonder and as far
as they've reunited chaga taken it well
after he went so went the unified entity
mogila Stan rallied here and there but
truthfully they never got it together
after took look Timur passed from the
scene the do glutes were still the power
brokers at this time and they put to
look Timbers son on the throne who also
championed his father's same cause of
converting all of the former we Gera
Stein into a Muslim land and with the
exception of the parts of Turpin and
kocho now called Carcosa from about
midway through the 15th century Sheen
John for the first time in its long
history was a Muslim land and the notion
of allowing the Weger
to manage their own lands under the
watchful eye of the mongols
well that too was done away with another
reason mogila Stan didn't rally after
toke look Timur was that right around
the time he died something that would
end up just as big as the Mongol Empire
was starting to coalesce around what
many historians say was the greatest
Conqueror since Chinggis Khaan and
perhaps the greatest of all time and
this was Tamerlane or timur from which
we get the term Timur Edd's Timur and
the Tim words of his empire were Muslim
he had a somewhat tenuous link to the
chaga tie line and in all he did timur
saw himself as the er-2 Chinggis Khaan
and the restorer of the mongol empire
the head faded from so much greatness as
soon as he didn't need the chugga tires
anymore as a legitimize er he sidelined
them and became the next uber power of
central asia 1372 1405 were the dates of
Tamara Lang's reign and the Empire he
founded survived him for a century
falling to the Iranian Safavid dynasty
in 1507 tamerlane was born not far from
Samarkand so the country of Uzbekistan
Stan gets to claim him as their own one
of the 14th 15th century changes
happening and worth knowing about and
Tamburlaine is usually held up by
historians as having personified this
was the emergence of what was called the
Turco Mongol tradition Tamerlane and the
Timur it's well the people he came from
and who came after him they were
turkic-speaking Mongols or in some
sources that refer to as Turki fide
Mongols the Mongols through their
expansion into these lands long ago
turki fide going back to the Kirk Turks
in the 6th century became one with them
in language and their newly shared
Islamic faith and in many other aspects
of their culture they brought with them
from the steppes of Mongolia to Central
Asia they spoke a language called chaga
Thai Turkic the population of Mongolia
today was only 3 million or so and way
back in the day and her numbers also
weren't that big either and they spread
themselves out pretty thin building an
empire as large as theirs so the
emergence of this Turko mongol tradition
in central asia was something that
happened when Mongol and Turkic ways
sort of blended into something new and
tamerlane was a shining example of these
Turki fide mongols and he was expending
a lot of effort to seize Mogul Assam
tamerlane tried several times and this
led the rulers in mogila Stan to reach
out to the Ming imperial court and ask
for some possible relief although he'll
die trying
Tamerlane had his sights on China as the
ultimate prize for his growing
collection of conquests and had he not
died when he did he might well have
succeeded so this period saw mogila
Stein cozy up to China and the Chinese
imperial court had plenty of past
experience when it came to insinuating
themselves into the labyrinth in
politics of these people beyond China's
traditional borders trade began to flow
in both directions and mogila Stan saw a
sharp increase
and wealth once again flowing in from
these lands from the east but more
galliston didn't last that much longer
besides the tim reds there were also new
powers that were making themselves known
just beyond the borders of shinjang and
these were the Kazakhs and the uzbek s--
they to put a lot of pressure on mogila
stan also around this time well it's not
really relevant to our story
but the Moghul Empire was established
down in India the founder Bob Orr was a
descendant of Tamerlane he reigned 1526
till 15 30 and this Moghul Empire I'm
sure you've all heard of it it lasted
for 331 years all the way into the 19th
century
falling hard in 1857 thanks to the
Indian rebellion of that year and of
course famously with a little help along
the way from the British East India
Company the mughal empire met an ignoble
end in 1857 the british raj playing the
role as the Terminator james Millward
named for developments that manifested
themselves during this mogul estat
period and shinjang in no particular
order these being the emergence of new
powers like the Kazakhs care geese and
the oi rot mongols these particular
Mongols will become central to our story
pretty soon the next major development
was the revival of trade links with
China transoxiana and India by this time
in history the Silk Road had pretty much
served its purpose in world history
since the days of the Western Han
Dynasty it had played a significant role
in changing the world through commerce
and as a kind of market where ideas were
exchanged but by the 15th century
navigation on the high seas was not such
a big deal anymore
people did it all the time and over very
long distances now sea trade had
replaced a large amount of these
caravans that had plied these ancient
Silk Road since time immemorial in most
cases sea trade was cheaper more
efficient and you didn't have to worry
about feeding and watering
camels or getting spit on or bit by them
the third development mentioned by James
Millard was the decline and
disappearance of the chaga time moguls
the last chugga tie at Khan was killed
around 1346 and without this great
legitimize er around to prop up any
would-be cons it led to even more
fighting and instability in the region
the last major development happening
around this time was the unstoppable
growth of Islam as the religion of
choice for most of Central Asia and the
Near East and the rise of these Islamic
kingdoms states and empires as major
political forces
let me quickly mention another footnote
from these times in Xinjiang this was
the kara del kingdom serious scholars of
this time called the kara del kingdom
well more than a footnote but since we
don't have all the time in the world to
dwell on every aspect of the history of
Xin Jiang I hope you can at least get a
whiff for a small taste of some of the
things that were happening after the
fall of the Mongolian Dynasty 1368-1644
lack of a better idea was called the
northern UN that lasted from 1368 the
year of julian Jung's triumphant
founding the Ming Dynasty all the way to
1635 when they were taken apart by the
later Qin Dynasty and of course we know
the later jeem by the name that they
took on later after they conquered China
in 1644
namely the Ching dynasty and these were
the Manchus
so this Prince Cunha sherry after
falling on the wrong side of a
succession struggle he left the confines
of the northern UN which was more or
less most of Mongolia and he headed west
like so many nomads of the step before
him
why did they always go west well North
was too cold to the south was China not
recommended to take them on unless you
were fully flanged and ready for action
east of Mongolia like I said the
Jurchens very rough people so it was
most often in a westerly direction where
these Turks and Mongols and kittens went
that's why they ended up in such great
numbers and Xin Jiang and beyond into
the into the stands of Central Asia
so goona sherry ended up in haami
northern turpan basin and in 1389 he set
up this kingdom they're still heavily
Buddhist remember Turpin Basin this was
the last place in Xinjiang to sign up
for Islam goona sherry he was a chugga
tired that is he had all the necessary
paperwork and Providence to claim
kinship with Agata Khan Genghis Khan's
number two son so this kingdom that he
set up was called the Cara del that
lasted 124 years 1389
to 1513 after goona sherry passed from
the scene what followed was a plethora
of competing rulers some chosen by the
northern yin and some by the main court
so in a familiar story that we've seen
so many times already a benign state was
set up in Xinjiang and eventually they
got caught up in a struggle between two
great powers one of them usually being
China the Cara del kingdom was one such
entity first they kept in the good
graces of Ming Dynasty China and then in
the 1430s they switched their loyalties
to the Iraq Mongols and in a bit I'm
gonna get to the zoom gars these were I
brought Mongols who during the Ching
dynasty are gonna butt heads with China
at a very violent and profound way being
caught in between all these powerful
forces around them eventually led to the
end of the car adèle kingdom it had been
in the 16th century anyway almost the
last bastion of Buddhism and Xin Jiang
kocho and Turpin but in 1513 after years
of constant succession struggles with
the OI riots and the Chinese competing
to keep their proxies and Kara
at the top in the end car adele was
absorbed by mo galliston and then
promptly Islamized
let me also mention between 1514 and
1705 almost two hundred years down in
the southwest of shin heung the
traditionally more ironic part there was
the yarkand connet yarkand is another
one of the ancient cities from that
region today the Archon is part of
kashgar prefecture and being located
next door to kashgar these two places
were always part of the same history
going on in this part of Xin Jiang and
thrived on and off for a couple thousand
years down and the South Rim of the
Tarim basin at its peak in the late
sixteenth early 17th century the Archon
connet controlled almost the entirety of
the Tyron Basin east of the hood XI
corridor and this land would in the
Ching dynasty be known as Alta char and
it would be fought over viciously by the
Ching armies and the local inhabitants
of the region the arc incarnate was sort
of a rump political state of what once
remained of the mighty chugga Tyco on it
so it sort of allowed the last vestiges
of the Mongol Empire to live on just a
little bit longer until this political
state from the Ming and Qing dynasties
is taken over by the next group of
conquerors that'll introduce in a minute
and look at more closely next episode in
part 10 these were the zone gars you've
probably heard of them before in
previous episodes they were the nemec's
of the early qing emperors and ward with
them constantly let me just give a brief
intro to the Tong gars and then we'll
slip the bookmark in as we always do
around the 25 or 30 minute mark and then
we'll finish things off in the next
episode the Xun gars they were one of
the bigger of the main tribes of Iran
Mongols and as we saw all the time and
those lands nestled between China and
Siberia from time to time
some charismatic unifying leader
appeared on the scene and used his ways
to get everyone on his side and then
lead soldiers into battle the Oy Watts
it was sort of a catch-all term for the
Western Mongols who called that part of
Asia where Siberia Kazakhstan northern
Xinjiang and westernmost Mongolia all
sort of come together
this was their homeland to the east were
the kal c'mon goals the group who made
up the biggest numbers of Mongol people
the oil rats were also called Cal mooks
and let me just say that some gars had
more ways to spell their name than
moammar qaddafi
the tongue gars parted ways with these
occasional nomadic conquerors like
Chinggis Khaan they weren't looking to
build an expansive Empire they were
looking to build a strong state right
where they were in their home base of
Hungaria zum Gary and basin a room she
is there the present-day capital of
Xinjiang haven't mentioned that place -
two hour drive north west of Turpan on
the other side of the tension that
Hungarian basin is in the north of
Shenyang nestled in between the Tian
Shan to the south and the all-time
mountains to the north in the early
1600s a new Iraq Confederation was
starting to take shape and in a similar
example going back to Maruchan you and
the show knew of the second century BCE
the zoom gars coerced and cajoled all
their fellow wats to join together as
one and this tomb gar state that arose
during the 17th century they did an
admirable job combining hurting animals
farming mining trading first with Russia
and after moving to Shenzhen with China
as well not since Chinggis Khaan head
the mongols look so good and when the
zone gars are vanquished later on
there'll be the last of these Eurasian
steppe empires and as the Ching dynasty
got off to its blazing start in the
1640s they cast a wary eye in the
direction of the Sun gars that
Emperor's or all Manchus they knew these
Mongols much better than the Ming rulers
Manchus and Mongols were different
people different branches of the I'll
take language family and occupying
different parts of the Eurasian steppe
but they were still kindred people of
the steppe and they had more in common
with each other than the Han Chinese did
so the manchu mongol relationship was
different and we'll see how the ching
used the mongols for a lot of a heavy
lifting at the start of the dynasty when
Schwinn Chur Kang Chi Yong Chun and chin
long were leading the glory years of the
ching dynasty though they understood
them much better and had a different
attitude towards them than the ming
rulers did that didn't mean the ching
didn't watch them closely the last thing
that Shing dynasty wanted was another
jingis or Kublai Khan so they managed
their Mongol relationships very
carefully and used the same old Yi GE
system of using barbarians to control
barbarians method that always seemed to
work so well in the past the Ching got
close to a few Mongol tribes most
notably the Kalka Mongols but they made
sure that it impose any kind of
political or military threat to the
dynasty the Manchus were few and the
Mongols were many and the Han Chinese
were even more numerous the ching rulers
were always aware of that and needed to
maintain just the right balance through
the alliances they made but the tongue
gars did manage to consolidate their
state and like it is always all it took
was a strong leader to emerge and for
the Tong gars this was gal don we've
heard that name before in previous
episodes the main nemesis of the Kangxi
Emperor those two are gonna learn to
hate each other like nothing else the
tomb guards were Tibetan Buddhist and
I'm gonna try like crazy to not drag
Tibet into the story even though their
history was all tangled up and what was
happening in the Sun gaarkhan it during
a 1640 Carell tie our grand Consul the
Junger leaders called for mongols to
unite under their state
and to return the mongols to their
former greatness and respectability on
the steppe around this time just at the
founding of the Ching dynasty gal Don
was born as a young prince he spent
several early years as a monk down in
Lhasa and was later called back to Tom
Gary aware the Khan it was what else
enveloped in a good old fashioned
succession struggle to simplify a
complicated explanation with a lot of
difficult names to remember gal dan
emerged on top of this struggle and when
the late 1670s was firmly in control and
ready to bring the donger connet to the
next level into the early 1680s
Gul Dan's military was able to take over
all of shins young and also expanded
into parts of Kazakhstan and the Fergana
Valley these same places have been
fought over since the earliest days of
recorded history
even though Gul Dan was not of the Ginga
sideline he was able to get special
dispensation from the Dalai Lama to
formally use the title of Khan and then
all throughout the 1680s Gul Dan went on
an acquisition spree to bulk up his
hunger connot and in the process caused
the kangxi emperor to lose no small
amount of sleep in one of the goals this
long reigning emperor had was to
delineate where some gar
Russian and China borders began it ended
Kang XI was the first Chinese emperor
who had to deal with Cyrus Russia
ever since the fifteen hundred's Russia
was racing in the direction of lava
stock which still had a long way to go
before it was actually founded but the
Russians were already moving full speed
ahead as if it were already there this
is all part of CHP episode 181 in the
early years of sano Russian relations
so the 1689 treaty of nerchinsk was
meant to not only settle border issues
but in the process isolated some gars so
they couldn't turn to Russia for
anything
and it's this dearth of allies and that
part of inner Asia that will always
stymie the tongue gars and
epic battle with the Ching Empire and
after the borders were settled the
Kangxi Emperor absorbed about 140,000
Kalka Mongols who suddenly found
themselves no longer part of the Tong
gar nation their lands were now part of
the Ching Empire they were going to come
in handy as a club to wield against the
zone gars okay let's hit the kill switch
right here I'm just roughly calculating
what remains to be said and finishing
this series up next episode it's gonna
be an iffy proposition at best but
whoever heard of a podcast series going
11 episodes
that's a strange number for a series so
much more to go yet well one more time
please consider supporting the CHP at
patreon.com slash China history podcast
three bucks a month it's all I'm askin a
few thousand more of you sign up I can
get out of the patio furniture business
until we meet again
this is Lazlo Montgomery signing off
from the city of Los Angeles California
you all know where you could find me in
two weeks and it's nothing less than my
greatest hope that you'll join me next
time for another exciting episode of the
China history podcast